I'm Mark. Um, I've been at Jane Street
for a little under 10 years now. I've
moved around the firm a bit, but I've
spent the bulk of my time doing
something close to what we would now
call production engineering here at Jane
Street. And I'm going to talk a little
bit about some of the interesting
challenges that come from the
intersection of that discipline with the
trading environment. I'm going to start
with an intro. That's this um I won't
infinitely recurse. Um I'll then go into
some relevant features of the production
environment. What makes trading such an
interesting space in which to operate
software in production? Uh and in what
ways is it similar to other domains? And
for those of you who work at other
trading firms, uh some of this will be
familiar, some of it may be different.
Maybe the ways in which we place
emphasis on things might be different.
Um
spend about 15 minutes on that. I'll
actually try to spend a little less
time, but we'll see if I succeed. And
then we'll talk about what it means for
us at Jane Street. How should we think
about building technology, processes,
culture in light of the features of the
production environment. I kind of hope
to spend a little more than 15 minutes,
but again, we'll see how I do. Um, and
then I'll talk about a sample incident
that will hopefully make everything feel
a bit more concrete. And then I'll leave
as much time for Q&A as possible.
Hopefully that sounds good. Um, so a few
more words of introduction. First off,
I've said production engineering at a
trading firm. Production engineering.
Similar words might be DevOps or SR.
It's kind of similar concepts. Um, this
is one plausible definition. Uh, I don't
claim it's a perfect one, but maybe it's
good enough. Um, maybe a more human
definition is roughly, you know, we've
got a bunch of software running. It runs
on computers that have hardware
failures, uh, in data centers that have
cooling outages, over network
connections that get their cables cut,
uh, connected to exchanges that have
their own issues, and of course, we
occasionally deploy our own bugs. And
so, how do we technically operationally
manage all this stuff in production and
again, especially when things go wrong.
So, that's basically the problem
statement. Uh and then I said you know
at a trading firm. So what is trading?
What does a trading firm do? Um
very basic uh basics of trading sort of
the system diagram that you need to
know. You start off with some trading
system could be a human trader could be
an automated system someone coming up
with some strategy.
The primary input into a trading
strategy in our model is going to be
market data. So an exchange can tell you
recent orders, buys, sells, etc. in some
stock. And a trader who's going to
decide what to do with that is going to
be interested in those order tick-bytick
order um information. And then they're
going to come up with some strategy,
some trades that they want to execute.
And when they do that, they're going to
need to execute it somehow. So we're
going to connect to some sort of order
entry port. um I might call it an order
engine throughout the course of this
talk that's going to be directly
connected to an exchange. We might have
a lot of different different order entry
ports connected to a lot of different
exchanges and that order entry port is
going to write to the exchange and also
read to the exchange read from the
exchange. The exchange will act the
orders or reject them communicate that
it has been filled some way like that.
That may be a thing that is already in a
lot of your heads. Maybe it's like your
model of trading already. There's one
more piece that people forget about a
lot. Um, I actually won't talk about it
a ton in this talk, but would love to
later because it's the area in which I
first started at Jane Street, so it is
near and dear to my heart. Um, but once
you've done a trade, you also need to
tell the world and yourself that you've
done it. So, you need to keep track of
your positions. Uh, that is then going
to feed back into your trading strategy,
which needs to know what its positions
are to correct the performance logic.
And you also need to upload those trades
to regulators also clearing firms and
other external entities.
Um that is the basic system diagram that
you kind of need to have in the back of
your head and I want to go into one more
thing which is I have said the word
order a bunch like you send an order to
the exchange. Um let's look at what an
what an order is. Um, when we talk about
an order, we're talking about an instru
an instruction to an exchange to execute
a certain trade. And this is, I would
say, like the simplest order that you
can kind of come up with. There's five
main key components to this order that I
want to talk about. There's the side,
you can buy or in this case sell. Uh,
there's the quantity, one share, maybe
100 shares, maybe a thousand shares.
There's the instrument, symbol, ticker.
What is the thing I'm buying or selling?
In this case, JCOM, could be Apple. Um,
and then there's a price, which is going
to consist of a quantity and a currency.
That's the basics of an order. Uh, they
can get sort of arbitrarily complicated
uh with more foot guns, you know,
multipliers, quoting conventions, all
sorts of funky stuff. Um, but this
example is going to be good enough for
the purposes of this talk.
That's the intro. Now, let's get into
some sort of more complicated features
of the trading environment.
Um, feature number one is every order is
important. This is notably different
from many other web services where maybe
it's not the end of the world if one
client's request to your web server
fails or is a little slow. It's not so
bad they can wait, try again. Maybe
worst case you end up with an unhappy
customer. It's not really the end of the
world. Returning to our previous example
of an order.
Simple. Uh but if you were to get any of
those details wrong, it could be
catastrophic. Uh what if you make a
mistake in any one of those economic
details?
uh to give one hypothetical example like
what if you were to make thisam this
mistake and
sell 600,000 shares at a price of one
yen instead of selling one share at a
price of 600,000 yen. Quick mental math.
Uh if you were to execute this or submit
this order and if it were to get filled,
you would lose roughly 600,000 squared
yen. Um now you may think, okay, this is
a pretty implausible bug to write. Like
that's a huge mistake. Just don't make a
mistake that big. Uh but you know
thousand engineers writing code that
needs to be handled by automated systems
and manual trading. So you have to avoid
fat finger bugs. Um there are different
order types. They do get more
complicated. There's different exchange
protocols. You kind of need to be 100%
sure that you're not going to somehow
make this mistake. And you might think,
okay, doesn't like the system kind of
save you? Like okay, sure. like surely
someone submitted this mistake and like
you can sue or something, right? Like no
one's gonna actually let this go
through. Um unfortunately this is not
like some random hypothetical example
that I came up with. Uh this was a real
thing that happened December 8th, 2005.
A trader at Mizuo made this exact
mistake and he immediately tried to
cancel the order. The exchange did not
accept his cancel. Uh the order went
through. it was filled. The firm lost 27
billion yen. Uh Japan's primary stock
index fell about 2%. And I think that
trader was pretty unhappy as was the
firm. Um they sued. They won some money,
maybe like a quarter of the total losses
they were requesting. Um so yeah, I
would not count on the financial system
saving you. Uh you you just cannot count
on that. So that's one reason why every
order is important.
Um, separately there's compliance
concerns. Like the SEC is just not going
to be happy with 99.99%
success rate. Like they actually want
you to report every order. Uh, you will
get fined if you have a few thousand,
you know, missing reports here and
there. So yeah, in general, feature
number one of the production
environment, every order is important.
Maybe I can more generally uh I can
generalize that into
trading is just generally scary. Um,
especially automated trading where we're
connecting computer programs uh to our
bank accounts and telling it to operate
in a tight loop. Like anyone who has
written software should, you know, know
that that is a scary sentence. It would
be scary enough if the logic were all
trivial, but logic actually gets pretty
complicated. The, you know, the price
might be more complicated than that
simple one number price I showed you
before. There could be a price with a
multiplier.
The multiplier for a given instrument
could be different depending on the
context in which you're talking about
that instrument, whether it's like
pre-trade or post trade. Um, and
remember, getting any single one of
these details wrong, uh, can be
catastrophic.
Or it could be just a little bad, but if
you do it enough times in a tight loop,
that can be catastrophic. Uh, which I'll
get to in a second. Um, and then the
last bullet point there about adverse
selection, I just want to say sometimes
these examples can seem contrived like
you know, okay, sure you roll this bug,
but nothing bad is actually going to
happen in the real world, right? And the
problem with the trading environment is
no uh something bad will happen. Uh, in
this environment, as soon as you decide
you want to do a bad trade, every other
market participant very eagerly wants to
do that trade with you as fast as you or
they possibly can. So once you make a
mistake, it is sort of immediately
pounced upon which is I think pretty
unique to the trading environment.
Um and again uh if you think this is you
know theoretical paranoia, this is a
real thing, quick show of hands. Who has
heard of night capital or night day?
Okay, less than half. Okay. Um about
half.
I'm not going to spend too much time on
this, but I just want to recap this
story. Um so the basic story of Night
Day is they were a trading firm like
Jane Street. Uh this story happens in
2012 I believe. They were among the
leading market makers, automated trading
firms uh based in the United States at
the time and they had some dead code
which if triggered would lose them
money. There was a bug. It would lose
them money on every order that went
through that system. It would only be
triggered by another system sending a
certain config flag. uh and that other
system never sent that flag. So this
never triggered in production. Then they
did two things simultaneously.
One is they repurposed the config flag
to do something else instead implement
some new feature. Uh they this was to
save themselves a version protocol
version bump protocol upgrade. Uh I I
have done this before repurposed a
config flag to save myself a version
bump. Um, so this new feature that they
were implementing did not have the bug.
So this is like a good thing this
change. Uh, you know, they're avoiding
the bug now. Um, then they started
sending the flag from that other system.
Um, so you can kind of see like, uhoh,
better hope step one goes well. There's
going to be a problem. You can probably
predict that step one did not go well.
Um, it mostly did. They had, I think,
eight instances of this system. Seven of
them successfully upgraded and one of
them failed to upgrade. Um it actually
did send like notification emails that
it failed to upgrade but this was
ignored. So the open happens and they
immediately start start losing money. Uh
every trade that goes through the system
that didn't upgrade loses money. The
engineers immediately identify the
system as the culprit. And what do you
do when you just rolled to a new version
and it is hemorrhaging money? You roll
back. Uh they did not identify that it
was the system that failed to rolled
that was losing money. They thought it
was the system that rolled. I think a
pretty intuitive reasonable thing to
think quite frankly. So they pretty
quickly rolled back um and that 8xed the
speed at which they were losing money.
45 minutes later they had lost about
half a billion dollars and they
basically ceased to exist at that point.
Um they had accumulated billions of
dollars of positions that uh went
against them and they like their own
stock price collapsed. Uh they were
bought by a competitor a few months
later and now we talk about it in talks
like this as a cautionary tale. Um
there's a ton of nuance to this story
that I'm glossing over. There's I could
have a whole talk on lessons from night
capital day and that is not this talk.
Um the main thing I'm trying to convince
you of is just that you know this is not
a theoretical concern. This is a thing
that happens and that we think a lot
about
um and yeah there are some uh the SEC
has a great report on this uh if you
enjoy late reading it is actually like
an amazing postmortem and you should
read all the details. Um so that's
feature of the production environment
number two like trading feature number
one every order is important feature two
trading is generally pretty scary
feature three a little different timing
matters a lot um our system follows the
trading day so systems shut down uh in
the morning and they start up at the
beginning of the day and nothing really
happens in these uh in these times at
the beginning and end of the day and
then there's these huge spikes at the
market open and the market close. Uh
people not in the industry may be
surprised at just how large a percent of
our overall volume happens in those
small windows. Uh and in between there's
like a lower constant level of trading.
Um this is a slightly simplified model.
Uh stuff happens during the day too. So
sometimes there's special trading
events. FOMC minutes. This means like
every few months the Fed will announce
various like economic data or you know
their policies. This is a big trading
event that that's one example. So a lot
of these we have these planned trading
events that we that we know about.
Sometimes the events are unplanned. Um
Trump tweets something or you know a
country invades another country or
something and volatility goes haywire.
Um that's a thing that happens as well.
And then to say one more thing about
timing um
external systems like we have a lot of
external dependencies that are really
anchored to time. So there's a pretty
interesting flow throughout the day
where you know at 7:30 a.m. every day
you download some metadata from some
external service that then you load into
your systems. You load those into
another set of systems. Some other you
download some more metadata and you've
got this kind of ticking clock of about
two hours every day where a bunch of
things need to happen in concert and if
anything slows down you need to scramble
to fix it before the open. Um there's a
few examples listed here. There's more
examples that I could give but this is
the kind of shape of what the trading
day might look like. So that's another
I'll say that's like interesting feature
of the production environment. Number
three is just that um timing matters a
lot.
The last feature I want to talk about is
we have internal users. Um this is
actually in my opinion the most
interesting of all of them. Um it's
pretty cool to work in an environment
where all of the users of our technology
are mostly within the same building or
at least within the same company. And
I'll talk more about the implications of
that later. But it is just important to
know that if something is wrong with our
system, we can talk directly to the
users in a very high bandwidth, high
fidelity, sort of no BS way. I don't
have to couch my language and pretend
like I didn't uh, you know, be worried
about some reputational impact of the
service going down or something. I can
just say exactly what's wrong and our
user can talk to us about exactly the
impact that's happening on them. And
that's going to really affect the way
that we respond to things in the
production environment.
That is the main features of the
production environment. I think I am
ahead of schedule if I timed it right.
So I'm happy about that. Um so now let's
talk about the implications. What does
Jane Street do uh as a result of those
interesting features? Um let's start by
talking about monitoring.
So you might be traditional with maybe
more SLO based monitoring. Um that might
look something like this. So the error
rate is below 01% i.e. you know 99.99%
of our requests should succeed. This is
a pretty standard shape of alert that
you might monitor. Um we do very little
of this. uh there's a problem which
maybe you've identified which is I just
said 100% of orders are important. Um so
if the 01% of order that you want to
cancel is that one that's really really
important um you know the one that's
going to bankrupt you then this alert or
an alert based on this SLO is not going
to help you very much. That's not just
true in the order space. You know, you
might say like 99.99% of our instrument
symbology should be accurate, but you
know, you really can't have you can't be
trading the wrong symbol on any order.
The fact that every order is important,
it's sort of every aspect of the order
is 100% important as well.
So, we actually do very little SLO based
monitoring in our live trading systems.
What do we do instead?
We do a lot of event-based monitoring
and alerting. Um
what does event based monitoring mean?
It means we have a section of code where
it says if this condition happens then
raise this error for a human to look at.
And the main feature of this uh I say
feature it's kind of a blessing and a
curse is it forces you to think about
every single edge case. So in
traditional SLO based monitoring, one of
the awesome things about it is you can
ignore unimportant edge cases. Who cares
if there's some weird condition on some
weird browser version with some weird
plug-in configuration that causes 12
users to have the web page load slowly.
Like it's just not important. You don't
need to waste an engineer's time dealing
with this condition. Um that's a great
feature for people uh who can sort of
set up that kind of SLO based monitoring
with event- based alerting. What we're
saying is actually we need to look into
that edge case and we are going to
decide consciously in code or maybe in
some config that's attached to the code
um that we need to at least identify
that issue and verify that we've decided
it's not worth an alert.
Um so we really at least in these like
trading based systems we really catalog
every edge case that comes up and decide
whether or not to alert on them. We
don't necessarily like fix every single
edge case. Sometimes we have decided
that we can fail safely in some way but
we really do enumerate all of them and
modify our alerting accordingly.
And so some benefits and downsides of
this. So the benefit obviously you get
the safety that we're after. There's
some other nice things like you get a
really high fidelity of alert detail in
SLO based monitoring. You might have
this annoying problem where you've
decided okay the rate of failure has
gone up two times over the last month
for like a wide variety of re reasons
like maybe you need to do some data
analysis to figure out which ones are
most problematic or if you should just
change your SLO or or what the deal is.
uh it can be a lot of kind of annoying
debugging when you have a specific call
site with a specific alert. You kind of
know exactly what happened and what you
need to fix. And that direct link to the
call site is also nice. You can just
look at the code that generated the
specific error condition rather than
having to look at a broad range of
symptoms.
The downsides as I've kind of alluded to
are you have to enumerate every edge
case which is just a lot of work. uh it
can be noisy uh if you failed to
enumerate every edge case. There can be
tribal knowledge where you decide ah
yeah this thing is happening again but
we know that's not an issue. Uh and it
can be hard to change alerts instead of
just changing a config you know change
99.99 to 99.95.
Um you have to change the logic that is
generating the alert which in turn means
you need to understand the codebase
pretty deeply. It makes it harder, I
would say, to have some like far off
distant s uh like operations team that's
monitoring your system without being
deeply familiar with it.
All that being said, we do use plenty of
metrics based alerts as well, uh both
for many cases where there's not a real
risk concern, um and also to measure
like long-term health of our systems, uh
and improvements to like our performance
as a whole. Um but a lot of what we do
is this event based alerting
and I'd like to talk a little bit more
about what kind of event-based alerts we
really like. Uh there is a classic
mantra in like S sur land like alert on
symptoms rather than causes. Um again
like quick show of hands who is like
familiar with this phrase or concept?
Ah sick. Okay very few people.
Excellent. Uh I will not rush past it
then. Um so a classic example here is
you've got some CRUD app uh you know
some web server that's connected to a
database and as you're writing this
system you might think to yourself um I
am going to raise an alert whenever the
database goes down and your logic that
you're intuiting is probably something
like the database going down is
obviously bad and
it is obviously going to cause user
impact if they try to connect to my web
server when my database is down, they're
going to get 500 errors and they won't
be able to connect. And furthermore,
when I get this alert that the database
is down, I know exactly what the root
cause is. The root cause of the 500
errors is that the database is down, so
I need to fix the database. Uh, if I
were to not alert on it, then I might
get a user complaint that they're
getting 500 errors, and I then need to
debug logs, whatever to eventually find
out what I could have known all along,
which is that the database is down. So
that might be what you intuitively think
and I think in many cases at in many
places at Jane Street and I mostly
believe this. Um we mostly think that's
wrong and you should not alert on your
database going down. Um and the basic
logic for this is you're going to need
to alert on the 500 errors anyway. Um
because the database going down is not
the only reason why your users might get
500 errors. there's a bunch of other
reasons and you probably can't list all
of them. So you need to alert on the the
500 errors. And so if you alert on both
now you're getting duplicate alerts.
That's noisy. That's a problem. That's
maybe problem number one. And that's
kind of like the best case. Um, and the
worst case, which is actually I'm going
to claim very likely, is that a lot of
those assumptions I just said about the
database going down is obviously bad,
obviously, obviously going to cause user
impact. Those assumptions are actually
not true. Um, it may be true at the
moment that you're writing your app, but
over time you're going to realize that
you occasionally need to do database
maintenance, and you're going to come up
with some scheme where you have a backup
database, and you can actually do safe
uh database maintenance with no user
impact. And so you're going to say,
okay, well, I'll silence the alerts
during my database maintenance window.
And then at some point, you're going to
do an ad hoc maintenance and you're
going to raise an alert. And then after
that, you're going to say, "Ah, okay.
We're going to create some RPC for the
person doing maintenance so that they
can proactively silence the alerts for
the next three hours as I do my ad hoc
maintenance." And it's just going to be
duct tape on top of duct tape all
covering over the fact that actually
none of your users care about your
database. They care about the 500
errors.
Um there it is true that the part I said
about it being convenient to have the
alert pointing to the database being
down. Um that is true that that is
convenient aspect of debugging but there
are less noisy less costly ways of
getting the same benefit. You can attach
the metadata that the database is down
to the alert that's generated or you can
have a monitoring dashboard that
displays information about the database
so that when you see the alert you know
to go to this dashboard and it will it
will be there. Um you can quickly draw
the connection without having to look at
another alert which might wake your on
call staff up um just because of routine
database maintenance.
So, we do a lot of uh symptom based
alerting in general. Um, and one
particular variety I want to call out is
what I'm going to call like orthogonal
alerts, maybe based on epistemic health
rather than service health. And you I
kind of think of these as like uh an
extreme version of a symptom based
alert.
Um, this is a case where we really have
no idea what the root cause even might
be. In fact, we don't even detect a
problem with any particular service. We
just know that something is weird about
the world. Something that some service
is outputting seems wrong in some way.
Uh, and this may be a little abstract,
so I'll give two examples. We have an
alert called feel too good or trade too
good. Uh, this means we made too much
money. Um, and this is my favorite alert
at Jane Street. Uh I don't know if it is
like kosher to say that you have a
favorite alert like not a fun party
trick or something but uh it is my
favorite alert. Uh it can catch so many
issues in so many different places in
our tech stack. If you have problems
with market data, if you have problems
with instrument generation, if you have
problems with the order engine, if you
have problems with your trading
strategy, if you have a rogue trader, if
a trader has fat fingered something,
anywhere in your trading stack,
something can be caught by this one
alert. Um that's like sort of yeah
symptom based alerting on crack or
something. Um another example might be
like high percent of market volume. If
you're normally 3% of market volume and
all of a sudden you're 60% of market
volume. I don't know what happened but
like that's pretty weird and indicates
that maybe something has gone
catastrophically wrong.
Um by the way that one looks a little
more solo to me which is you know cool
and fine. Uh I think the main thing is
it's a bit orthogonal to any specific
indicator of service health.
Um and yeah, I would say like what those
two examples have in common is that
they're not related to any particular
technical failure in any particular
service. They're more indicating that
our understanding of what the cohesive
unit of our systems is doing is wrong at
some like high abstract level.
So these are some of the alerts that
that we like. Um whenever you raise an
alert, you have to think hard about
who's going to receive the alert. And uh
I think these examples are a really good
use case of that. I just said they're
not tied to any particular service. So
which service owner should
like receive the alert? Uh and I kind of
like you guys to spend like 20 seconds
just like thinking about this question.
Um like if you have this alert on like
feel too good like who should look at
that and how should they respond to it?
Yeah. Literally spend 20 seconds think
about it.
Cool. Um I'm not going to call on people
because I think the mics won't work and
stuff. Uh, also there's no right answer.
Uh, yeah, it's a totally unspecified
question. Uh, but I do want you to kind
of think about that question in the back
of your mind. I'll hearken back to this
in a little bit. I'm curious what you
guys thought. Um, yeah, just something
to think about for now. Um, the last
thing I wanted to mention in this
section is we do obsess over signal to
noise ratio. So I have basically no
secret sauce here except to say that
this is just a thing that the firm has
to take really seriously as part of its
culture. I think it's a pretty neat
thing about Jane Street that you know
traders, devs, production engineers,
sort of everyone deeply understands that
noisy alerts are worse than useless. And
we care so much about human attention
that we do end up spending a lot of time
um you know tweaking alerts, alert
thresholds, alert logic, whatever, going
over ed every edge case so that we can
have a good signal to noise ratio. And I
think you probably can't really do this
event-based alerting unless you just
have a really strong cultural foundation
of caring about signal to noise ratio
because it is so prone to noisy alerts
that you need it like embedded within
the culture not just like the tech nerds
or whatever but like everyone traders
etc. Um yeah
part of the culture. Yeah.
Cool. Another thing I want to talk about
is defense in depth. So I had drawn a
diagram similar to this earlier, but
I've now added this external risk
enforcer. And I've been talking a lot
about alerts, but I had previously said
that like any
problem is catastrophic. So like what if
we fail to raise an alert? You know,
what if we have a bug in the alert
generation logic? Um, and I think the
basically the only way that I know of to
solve that problem is to just have a lot
of defense in depth and have a lot of
things that need to go wrong hopefully
in an uncorrelated way for you to, you
know, be confident that you're not going
to have big problems. Um, so what we do
is we run similar alerts in different
systems written by different teams uh
and try not to share too much underlying
metadata metadata logic. Um, so you
know, the trading system might have its
own risk checks monitored by a trader
who's applying some judgment. The order
entry port has its own risk checks. And
then you're going to have some external
system that, you know, reads in after
the fact that submits maybe leases to
the order entry port that has its own
risk checks. And again, importantly,
these are all written by different
teams. Um, so you know, if one alert has
failed to generate, the other alert
hopefully will. And the main weakness in
this pro in this uh approach is
probably they have some common
dependencies. And so you're gonna have
to look really carefully at those common
dependencies and you might need
duplicate versions of those dependencies
as well. Um yeah
uh some more about defense in depth.
This is kind of going to be similar to
the feel too good thing I talked about.
um which is we have we monitor technical
health monitored by technical staff and
we monitor trading health trading impact
monitored by trading staff and again
those are two sort of orthogonal uh sets
of alerts that hopefully can cover a
similar ground of thing. Uh so tech
system monitoring is going to look like
is our software or hardware experiencing
technical issues? Are our systems able
to execute trading decisions as
expected? Do we have external
connectivity issues? Whereas trading
impact is going to be are we having the
market impact that we expect? What P&L
are we acrewing? Are we sending the same
orders that we intended to send? And
like the feel too good case, uh
sometimes traders noticing weird trading
impact can inform technical staff of
problems with our technical health.
And the very last thing I want to say
about monitoring is it is not optional
uh at a trading firm. Um I I sort of
hear of uh other firms where it's kind
of like an ancillary thing. Maybe like
the project you give to the new joiner
if it crashes, you know, who cares? It's
not serving any customers. It's not a
huge deal if it goes down. And that is
not the way we treat monitoring at Jane
Street. Um we basically don't trade
unless it's being monitored. And so
monitoring systems are among our most
robust, most well- tested, most
redundant, we have failovers, etc. So
that's just another sort of philosophy
around monitoring at Chain Street.
Okay.
Uh there's one more thing I wanted to
talk about sort of how we treat uh how
we react in our production environment
to sort of the the nuances of the of the
trading environment. and that is
business context is key. So production
engineers and all technical staff who
respond to things in production which is
basically everyone uh need deep business
context and a actually a correlary or
not a correlary the inverse of this is
traders uh need technical context. So,
if you remember that bit I said earlier
about how we have internal users,
the ability to communicate effectively,
I sort of implied was good and useful
and nice, but you can only really take
super advantage of it if you can
actually speak really effectively
together in a high fidelity way, which
means or I mean another way of putting
it is like it raises the stakes and
importance of being able to communicate
effectively with people who speak kind
of different languages from you. So, you
know, communication bandwidth is much
higher. If a trader can say, you know,
spoo market data looks stale. And I, as
a technical staff, know immediately that
when he says spoos, he means index
future of the S&P 500. Uh, and that I
know that this trades on the CME, which
is located in Aurora, Illinois, which
therefore means that probably if I
search for AUR uh in our list of order
engines, I'm going to find the order
engine that he's talking about. And so,
yeah, in an incident, if someone were to
say, "Spoo's market data looks stale,"
it would probably take me, you know, two
or three seconds to find the relevant
order engine or market data feed that
that trader is referring to. Uh, if you
don't have the business context to know
what that means, you might want to do,
you know, ask him what spoo means. Okay,
it means this symbol name. I'm going to
do some lookup table to see the
exchanges that this symbol trades on.
It's going to give me some identifier.
I'm going to look up that identifier.
it's going to give me some other thing.
We can bypass all of that and know
immediately what the person's talking
about. This is a bit of a contrived sort
of simple example. Um, but I think
deeper examples exist as well where
traders can say pretty nuanced things
about the trading and technical staff
who know some nuances of the trading can
pinpoint the likely culprit or system
that might be at at fault.
Um
and lastly I had also said that timing
matters and knowing those special market
events is really important for you know
technical staff to be aware of. Uh you
can know that different market events
will impact different desks differently.
Um understanding those nuances can be
really valuable. Ah the reason our
market data is going crazy right now is
because yes Trump just tweeted about
steel tariffs. um we should be prepared
to respond accordingly. Uh I understand
why we're getting these delays. This is
what we should do. Um this sort of thing
happens all the time and it is really
useful to be able to have that context
and avoid doing things like rolling a
system before some economic news that's
going to affect the desk that that
system is serving.
That is the sort of what it means for
production engineering. I think I'm
still doing good on time, right? Okay.
Um, and now I want to get through a
sample incident. Uh, which will
hopefully make this all a little bit
more concrete. Uh, this sample incident
is loosely based off an amalgamation of
a few separate incidents. So, it's not
like 100% real. Uh, but it is pretty re
like it's pretty realistic, I would say.
Um, and yeah, hopefully interesting. Uh
so
um in this sample incident uh 7:15
routine roll of order engine completes
new version it's kind of standard um has
some bug fixes small refactor tests pass
uh cool 931
um fill two goods raised to trading
desks for a bunch of symbols.
Um, at this point there's a lot of
individual traders who have each
received like one feel too good. And so
no one quite knows that there's some
widespread problem, but maybe a bunch of
people might start looking into their
own subset of trading.
9:32,
uh, the order's team receives an alert
called too many fill goods and the order
engine automatically halts.
Um, so now I'll do a quick sidebar. uh I
had talked about who should receive the
feel too good alert. I think there's a
lot of plausible answers. I think this
is one possible answer which is like
maybe you have uh individual feel too
good alerts go to the trading strategy
that is related to that specific symbol
and maybe you have some meta feel too
good alert that goes to some tech team.
Um in our case I I had asked the
question you know if this could be um an
alert that covers anywhere in the tech
stack like which tech team should
receive the alert and the thing that we
do at Jane Street is we uh send them to
the order engines team. Um and the basic
idea is the order engine is the last
point before you sort of get to the
exchange. It's like the last point of
safety uh before your risk is going out
the door. And so theoretically, the
order engines team should be the team to
most reliably guarantee that we're not
doing bad trades. They're our last line
of defense. That's our answer. I think
there's a lot of plausible ones. Um
that's what we do. So 933. Um order
engines is going to start an incident.
They use a system we have called what
changed. Uh what changed is you know you
type in a system and it tells you all
the things that changed in that system.
You know, you can imagine binary
changes, but also any relevant config
changes, any relevant metadata changes,
anything like that. And they very
quickly see that there was some code
changes that were released this morning.
And you look at a list of feature names.
One of them says, you know, refactor of
price serialization. Okay, price
serialization seems like potentially a
pretty scary thing to get wrong. Uh,
hope I serialized the price right. Maybe
the refactor caused a bug. So, I start
investigating that.
Um within a minute as you start
debugging the uh price serialization
change you realize that that change was
actually rolled to many more order
engines than just the one that you're
currently investigating.
Um you now have a bunch of interesting
things to think about. So maybe you can
kind of divide the belief story into a
few possible categories. Let's assume
for a second that we have 100%
confidence in our alerting. Um that
could indicate two things. One is it
might indicate that the price
serialization feature is a red herring.
Um if our alerting is 100% correct and
the price serialization is a problem,
then shouldn't all the other order
engines also be raising filter goods?
That's one thing you might think. The
other thing you might think is okay well
maybe the price serialization change is
to blame but it's only affecting this
order engine for some reason. You know
it's related to the specific protocol
that this order engine is communicating.
That's kind of like one category of
thing if if you believe 100% in your
alerting. Uh the other possibility is
you don't 100% believe that your
alerting is perfect. Uh, and so you
think this price serialization change
was rolled out to a bunch of other order
engines and maybe those other order
engines are actually also losing money,
but we haven't yet discovered it. Maybe
our feel too good thresholds are too uh,
you know, risky or something.
So at this point, we might start talking
like should we be preemptively halting
these other order engines that are
rolled with this suspicious code change?
And this I don't think we're going to do
this immediately. We're going to spend a
few minutes talking about it. Um, and
that's that's what's happening right
now.
A few minutes later, as this discussion
is taking place, traders join the
incident call and they report that
market data looks stale. Uh, and so when
I say stale here, what I mean is they're
receiving you they would expect to
receive second by second or faster ticks
for each individual symbol they're
trading. They're saying like, "I would
have expected to receive a bunch of
ticks in Apple by now, but actually I
haven't received any and I'm trading
based on the market data that we got at
9:30 a.m. this morning, you know, at the
open." Uh, that seems like a big
problem.
Um, as soon as they report this, the
entire incident bridge immediately
thinks to themselves, "Ah, maybe this
price serialization thing is all a red
herring. Maybe the problem is market
data." So, let's have market data join
the incident call.
and the market data team will see some
symbols that look stale. Uh, you know,
they pull up their monitoring and they
say, "Yeah, uh, I agree. We're the
traders. These symbols, the last time
they were updated was yesterday's close.
Um, they don't they aren't marked as
stale." Uh, so when I say marked as
stale, what I mean is you might think
that we have a system for reporting to
clients of the market data that actually
we you should not use this market data.
You should use something else instead.
this one is not reliable. We're not
doing that. Um, so I think there might
be a bug. I think people might be
getting stale market data and thinking
it's live.
They start debugging. Uh, you use like
our metaarch tool, you know, you search
the symbol, one of the culprit symbols
into our metaarch tool and you see that
um, there was an exchange driven change.
What I mean is an email uh from the
exchange saying yeah uh in two weeks as
of like today uh we're going to split
the market data feed. So again, split
the market data feed, meaning maybe
they're sending this market data over
four partitions right now, a quarter of
the part symbol universe in each
partition. They're going to create a
fifth partition and 20% of each of the
old partitions will go to the new
partition. You should start connecting
to this new partition on this day. And
the market data dev says we should be
robust to this, but I can imagine that
we have a bug. And the bug is um we mark
entire feeds as stale or not stale and
maybe we missed this uh EDC like you
know exchange driven change and so all
of the symbols that are on the new
partition we're just like not reading
that new partition. We still have them
internally in a config attached to the
old partition and we've said that old
partition is current. So, you guys are
trading based on yesterday's market
data, like the closing price yesterday.
Um, the market data team says this
shouldn't be possible. Like, we have
fixes for this. Like, that's not how the
logic works, but I can imagine that we
have this bug and we definitely did miss
this EDC. Um, I think we should keep
trading halted right now on this order
engine. I don't think we need to uh roll
any of I don't think we need to halt any
of the other order engines because this
really does seem like the culprit. we're
going to roll a config change to account
for the uh for the change.
They do that a few minutes later. They
roll a config change. We turn on the
order engine. Uh see if we continue to
get fill two goods. We don't. And we
sort of conclude, okay, the
situation is resolved. We found the
culprit. Um and then people start doing
some thinking like, okay, but how
confident are we that we've actually
solved the issue? uh can we be convinced
that the market data bug is the the
cause of the problem? Um and
maybe two weeks ago you get this uh
exchange notification. Um
we do some investigation and determine
that yeah there is a bug. Um the the
exchange did send us a you know not
notice that um so in the market data
feed the the exchange tells us yet we've
moved these symbols and we are supposed
to have logic that reads this and knows
to mark the symbols as stale but we've
actually never exercised this logic
because we've never missed an electronic
uh we've never missed an EDC before. So
there's sort of two things that have
gone wrong. One is we missed the EDC and
two is uh we didn't handle the missing
the EDC correctly. Um we had a bug in
how we handled partitions. You know that
code path had never been executed.
So some interesting takeaways here. Um
again my favorite alert uh the feel too
good is the thing that caught it. You
know an order engine uh alert caught an
issue in the market data. Um that that
that's pretty cool. Good job. Feel two
goods. Um
I think in real life other alerts
probably would have caught it too. Uh
maybe like our our trades not appearing
in the market data. Uh you know I think
you can imagine a trader saying we did
this trade in Apple but I don't see the
trade that I just did in the market data
that I'm receiving. So I think market
data is stale. I think that alert
probably would have raised. Um
some other takeaways. Uh going back to
timing matters. So a pretty interesting
thing in this case is uh nothing we did
really mattered that much. Uh you know
we reacted really fast to everything
like one minute in between each thing. I
think that's like a pretty impressive
timeline but actually all the damage had
been done as of 9:31. You know we missed
the open. Uh that is the problem. So I
think a lot of the post-mortem here
would have involved us asking whether we
could have caught this anyway like 20
minutes earlier. Uh if we could have
caught this 20 minutes earlier with
pre-open trading or some other alerting
um then this quick resolution would have
actually allowed us to make the open. Um
you can also imagine cases where you
know maybe at some point in this
incident the trader would have said uh
by the way Fed minutes are in 20 minutes
and again that would have really
affected the way that we handled the
incident. We would have had to do things
with a certain level of urgency and we
would have made different risk decisions
along the way.
Um the other thing I want to highlight
is the communication between traders and
tech. And again I think this instance
where
the traders join the incident call and
report that market data looks weird
that was sort of the turning point in
this incident. That gave us the key
insight we needed to know to call in
market data. And that is really common
in Jane Street incidents where from a
technical perspective sort of everything
looks fine. uh at least looks like our
systems are behaving correctly, but when
a trader can report that we're doing
something wrong from their perspective,
that can really speed up resolution. Uh
and again, you know, this uh sanitized
version of an incident uh maybe doesn't
make it quite so clear how useful it is
to be able to talk uh understand each
other's languages so that the incident
room isn't just like total chaos of
people not understanding what the other
person is saying.
Um
that is really the main highlights
takeaways that I wanted to get out of uh
this sample incident. Um just to wrap
things up um
the things we sort of talked about here
we rely a lot on eventbased alerting.
Again, we have SLO based alerting, we
have metrics based alerting, but those
tend to be more for long-term health,
whereas we rely a lot on event- based
alerting for actual live trading system,
sort of core of our alerting
infrastructure. And we rely a lot on
these orthogonal epistemic alerts uh to
protect against a really broad range of
failures.
And then our monitoring systems are
among our most critical. We make sure
that they are more reliable than the
trading systems they are monitoring. We
would rather a trading system go down uh
than the monitoring system go down.
And we have a lot of defense and depth
for the most important systems. You just
have to use multiple again maybe
orthogonal systems to get at the same
thing. You simply can't create a system
so reliable that you can be 100%
confident that it will be reliable
enough. and support staff needs business
knowledge and internal communication to
be able to make high-quality decisions
and move fast in an incident.
And then one last thing I want to say uh
just to keep myself honest. Uh this is
all a little bit of an exaggeration. Um
there's plenty of ways in which lots of
uh production engineering at Jane Street
looks a lot like it does elsewhere, but
in this talk I did want to highlight
some of the differences. Um, but there's
plenty of areas in the firm where, you
know, it's not quite so tight hot loop
of trading. Uh, and you can afford to
take a more like normal approach to S
sur production engineering, whatever the
case may be. We've got a pretty wide
variety of that. Um, that is the end of
my talk. Uh, any questions?
>> Yeah.
>> Hi Mark, thank you so much for the talk.
I just had a quick question on the
sample incident that you shared. Um so
you did mention about the importance of
monitoring systems and how critical they
are and as we look at the sample
incident um the root cause was two weeks
ago an email from exchange which is
super important.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So I was just curious as to like
you know for any monitoring obviously we
do have fancy monitoring systems but
emails come first. So weren't there any
u monitoring or any acknowledgement that
someone you know acknowledged that email
or monitoring that um this email from
exchange was act or any change had been
rolled out in response to that? Um
>> yeah great question. So uh this exact
mistake is absolutely a mistake that
we've made multiple times and we try
really hard to avoid making and just the
basic problem with uh these exchange
driven changes is we don't need to do
anything for like 99.99% of them and
unfortunately like we can't convince the
exchanges to only tell us about the ones
that we care about. So they tell us
about everything and we need to spend
some manual effort trying to parse them.
So, I know nowadays we've got like
various LLMs and stuff trying to like
get at some of the signal to noise and
we've got like a whole process for
people staring at them and trying to
make the right decision, but there have
been multiple cases where people have
just made the wrong decision. Uh, read
the email and determined it didn't
affect us and we were we were wrong
about that fact and uh that's what
happened in this incident.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
So it's like follow up to the um
incidenting questions like how is it
how's it even possible that the they
don't time stamp the market data and
start trading and the price is like from
yesterday they close sounds like sounds
like very important
and second like why why would all the
engines catch it? it seems like at least
like the last piece of software that
cares about the stiness of market data.
Um so this is like interesting questions
I I have for for the instance and the
second questions I I have is uh
regarding the the event based um alerts.
So in the firm we we rely heavily on
metrics based alerts because like once
we start doing event based um requires
like indepth integrations of this like
every piece of software being able to
generate all these events is like how is
it like these things orchestrated in in
in Ju like is it part of the
responsibility to make sure these things
is deeply integrated in the software by
the productions engineering team or is
it like a practice that every team has
to do? Um, okay. I'm gonna I think I
caught all that. Uh, but I I may not
have. So, I'll go first question first.
Um, so sort of like isn't that like a
giant mistake to accidentally be reading
yesterday's market data prices for
today's live market data? Um, one thing
that maybe I sort of glossed over in the
beginning is we trade on a really wide
range of exchanges from super well-
behaved exchanges that are extremely
liquid and this would be like wildly
implausible to ever happen to like
pretty weird sketch exchanges uh where
maybe like they're most of the time
really inactive and it's actually not
that crazy that you might not have had
market data in a symbol for a given day.
Um, so I think in the incident that this
was based off of, it was an exchange
that normally has very low volume, but
due to some weird news like became
really really high volume. Um, I again I
think this might have been like a
geopolitical I forget the exact details
but I think it was some geopolitical
thing where some country became very
important and so that country's exchange
uh was kind of going crazy and we
Yeah. So basically like a thing that was
normally implausible became very
plausible. Um that is I think the first
part of your first question. Uh the
second part is isn't it implausible that
like the order engine catches the market
data bug. And again I guess the thing I
would highlight is that the order engine
the error that the order engine is
raising is not anything to do
specifically with market data. It's to
do with some like epistemic status about
the world. And so the order engine
didn't notice that market data was
wrong. the order engine noticed that we
sent a a trade that seemed too good and
that helped us identify market data.
Does that answer the your first
question?
>> Yeah.
>> Um I'm sorry I forget your second
question.
>> Yeah. It's like when you when we start
doing all this like event based um thing
why is like really in depth integration
to software and is it like how is it how
does these things orchestrated in Jesus
like every software team needs to do
this like integrations or is like
product engineering is going to do some
extra monitoring third party stuff.
>> Yeah. So I think in general like we
most of our production engineer teams or
really all of our software teams tend to
monitor their own systems. So we don't
like have one team that is writing the
core logic and another separate team
that is writing the alerting around that
system. Um the people who are developing
the software are also deeply integrated
into writing the alerting. Does that
answer your question?
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's like it would that
makes like every single team it's like
um they have to engineer space
specifically for every kind of events
that is like baked into to software. So
that's like um cuz like for for us we we
rely heavily on metrics uh alerts
because like it's it's easy it's kind of
hard to make every single like software
just yeah
>> to make event based
>> um alerts without like generating tons
of noise.
>> Yeah, I think my like short answer to
your question if I'm understanding it
correctly is basically the answer is
yes. like software engineer teams, all
engineering teams at Jane Street need to
think really hard about all the ways in
which their software can go wrong and
raise alerts accordingly. Um, and like
think about how the humans on the
receiving end of the alert is is going
to respond to that alert. And yeah, I do
I think it's a lot of work in a lot of
ways. Uh but it does mean that we have
really reliable robust alerting that we
then feel really good about and can
allow us to sort of paradoxically like
move really fast in other ways because
we are so confident in our alerting that
we know that we'll catch something if
something goes wrong.
I think I saw a hand. Yeah.
>> Uh thanks for taking the question. I'll
stay anonymous for now. Um I have two
questions I think. First one is uh
perhaps relatively straightforward for
you to answer and the second one uh if
you're not feeling comfortable to answer
I can
>> okay cool.
>> So the first one is uh I think um do you
guys have some sort of common login
standard across different teams
responsible for different components. So
the reason I ask this is imagine you
mentioned in your system uh you have
some sort of a risk alerting risk
monitoring right and they have a
separate team that's presumably let's
say it's responsible for generating the
actual trade actions and if something
goes wrong say the alert comes from the
from your alerting system and if you try
to look at the logs
uh so personally
had the experience that so for example
you goes into the close auction and the
monitoring system says oh my IV my
participation rate is too high. So alert
goes spun off and then you get the devs
try to investigate and they look at the
order system and they have one set of
logs and they try to check say oh what
is the auction volume at the time. So
they would search for the keywords for
example what is the indictive you know
auction volume and crossing volume
whereas then you try to cross reference
say oh why did the monitoring system
throw that alert and when you go to data
logs rather than say you know the
indictive and cross volume they say IV
so sometimes you actually need to be
able to diagnose you need almost like a
subject expert knowledge from two
different systems purely because the
devs decided to use different
conventions and there isn't a place to
enforce the sort of conventions. So does
Jen Street have some sort of common
standards?
>> Um yeah, I think the answer to that is
like a little nuanced. Uh unfortunately
I think we have some common alerting
libraries that most teams use. I think
for and yeah I find this question
actually maybe this is I hope this is
the harder question. Uh, I know you said
it was gonna be the other way around,
but I find this question hard to answer.
Um, yeah, I think we have common
alerting libraries. I think we have some
common standards. I think
like it depends a lot on the set of
alerts you're talking about. One thing
that's true about Jane Street is we
don't have a lot of topdown edicts. In
fact, we have approximately zero top-
down edicts. So really every generator
of an alert is sort of free to do it in
their own way. Uh and I think that does
mean that like if I am on one team and
then I move to another team, I need to
understand that team's conventions uh
for alerting. All those teams are
hopefully using a relatively common set
of tooling provided by like our core
services team. Um but they're kind of
free to use that tooling in their own
way. So, you know, we're going to have
like the same log levels throughout the
firm using the same logging library, but
a specific convention around, you know,
what terminology you use around a
specific condition, uh, could vary team
by team. That being said, a lot of the
teams I'm talking about here, like
market data, order engines, are building
market data and order engines for all of
our desks. So if you're trying to debug
something for like the equities team
that's connected to the market data,
that's the same team that's like the
bonds market data team. Like a lot of
our infrastructure is sort of shared
across different trading strategies. So
I think a lot of these like risk
question alerts are going to be from a
common framework that's going to apply
to a bunch of different tasks. Does that
answer that question? Kind of.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, that was the easy question. Great.
That's
>> hopefully more straightforward.
Uh so the second one is um
again ties back to the monetary system
that you mentioned right and I can
imagine for chain capital you probably
as a firm has an overall at any point in
time a risk appetite or risk capacity
that you're taking and then inside it
you have your individual desks or
functions that's taking risk at any
point right and then you have some sort
of trade events that's originated from
your trading trading system or different
trading components or trading desks and
then I imagine at some point you want to
keep counter of your overall aggregate
risk precision. Yep.
>> So when that comes through, how does Jin
Street do do you guys act have the
system um I guess the overall monitoring
uh does that act as the final gatekeeper
and it's sort of like a blocker that you
essentially pay for a computation time
cost to process that thing first and
then as a single aggregation point pay
for the cost of the check before you
decide to let it out the door or you do
some other asynchronous way like
>> yeah uh again I think the answer to that
is a little complicated and maybe I'll
go back
to
some slide around here somewhere maybe
um like the two kind of different kinds
of alerting that we have um I think in
this talk I have mostly been thinking
about like our technical health not our
like trading like sort of thoughtful
trading risk
So the way we tend to do this is when
you're thinking about like the sort of
overall firm risk that we're putting on
that tends to be in our trading
monitoring systems that traders are
looking at and making human time
decisions about how much like firm risk
we're willing to put on as a whole. And
then we also have like I guess we maybe
my answer is we do a mix of the two
where for some amount of risk there's
like automated systems that will turn
off if you're exceeding this risk and
then for other sort of more firmwide
risk things we have humans looking at
them and trying to make decisions based
on you know what they think is safe over
the course of you know days whatever the
case may be. Does that answer your
question?
Um
Dan's telling me I don't have much time.
Uh
how many more questions? Two.
>> One more question. Okay. Uh arbitrary
you in front. Thanks for sitting in
front.
>> Great. Um thank you so much for the the
talk till now. Um so I come from a
startup hedge fund and it's pretty
interesting to see all the sophisticated
systems you have here and uh the time
period that you started 9:31 and you
kind of resolved the issue by 9:45. Uh I
think it takes us like that time to
figure out what went wrong really. So
that's impressive. Uh but there are two
two main aspects that I think about here
is that first is the event based
alerting right. Um so we do that
sometimes but sometimes what happens is
when one thing blows up 100 other things
are going to blow up as well
>> and then you have thousands of alerts
like it just multiplies right.
>> Um so how do you deal with that? And the
second question is you mentioned the
order engine halts. Um
making that decision is it as easy as
just like oh yeah halt it but what if
the next set of orders are way more
important than the orders that have
already been executed and then you when
you resume resume the orders that came
in between like suppose if traders are
still like oh you want to trade do you
just put them in the market or market
has changed by now? So so how do you
deal with like these two things? Um,
I'll answer the second question or the
second part first because my memory is
bad and it's the part that I remember.
Um, so I guess as a sort of concrete
technical matter, I think once the order
engine is halted, it would reject the
trading systems order and so the trading
system would have internal logic knowing
that it would need to resend the order
if it wanted that to get filled. That's
sort of the concrete answer there. Um,
how am I so bad? Sorry, can you just
repeat all the questions very quickly?
So the first one was like when your
alerts multiply
one thing breaks and like you know it's
just a dominant effect sometimes.
>> Yeah. I think we don't do great at that
is like my honest answer. I feel like we
have absolutely that same problem. If
anyone's solved it, talk to me
afterwards. Maybe uh maybe we'll copy
some stuff from you. Um I'm trying to
like come up with a you know better
sounding answer, but
>> yeah, I don't think we do great there. I
think Yeah, I think that happens here
too. Yeah, because if that happens, I
think it becomes difficult to kind of
solve an issue between like within 14
minutes, right?
>> Um, let's see. It doesn't feel like it
often becomes a huge problem. And I'm
trying to think of why that's the case.
I guess it might be useful to think of a
concrete example like in this example I
gave, we there wasn't any no system
noticed anything wrong with any system.
Um, the only alert that raised in this
case was feel too good. like as far as
we were concerned all the systems were
healthy and so like we wouldn't raise a
cascade of alerts because as far as
we're concerned like everything's going
fine. Um, in cases where there are like
we know that there's a system problem, I
think, yeah, the maybe the biggest
problem is like many different systems
will raise alerts that they're each
down. But it tends to not be super
problematic because in fact, again, we
do system symptoms based alerting. So,
you know, this system that's supposed to
serve this users for this purpose is now
down. That's a real valuable alert that
lets us know to contact those users and
let them know that they need to change
their behavior somehow because the
system isn't going to behave as effect
as expected and so on for all the
downstream systems. Um, so I guess we
don't tend to have that problem because
of the symptoms based alerting that I'm
talking about. And then I'm so bad with
memory. Sorry, what was your second?
>> No, I I think that's all the answer.
>> Okay,
>> cool. Thank you all. And apparently uh
that's the last time for questions, but
I'm happy to stick around and talk to
anyone afterwards. Thanks.